README.md, before:

# notivuecation

Promise-based alert and confirm modal for Vue.js. See some examples on the [demo page](https://petervdn.github.io/notivuecation/example/).

## install

```sh
npm install notivuecation
```
## basic usage

1 - Activate the plugin.
```javascript
import Vue from 'vue';
import notivuecation from 'notivuecation';

Vue.use(notivuecation);
```

2 - Add the component that renders the notifications. You probably want to put this somewhere in the root component of your site, so it can always be visible. There is a simple component (named `notivuecation`) available, but you can also create and use your own.
```html
<notivuecation />
```

3 - Call `$alert` or `$confirm` from any Vue component:
```javascript
this.$alert('You are the 1 millionth visitor!').then(claimPrize);

this.$confirm('Are you sure?').then(result => {
  // result is true/false
});
```

## overview
The plugin exports three methods:

```javascript
import { confirm, alert, notify } from 'notivuecation';
```
These are also added to the Vue instance under the following names: `$confirm`, `$alert` and `$notify`.

### notify
The `notify` is the base method of the plugin and is internally always used to show a notification. It accepts an object that defines the title, a message and all buttons to show:
```javascript
notify({
  title: 'Claim prize',
  message: 'What color should your car be?',
  buttons: [
    {label: 'red', value: 1, css: 'red'},
    {label: 'green', value: 2, css: 'green'},
    {label: 'blue', value: 3, css: 'blue'},
  ]
});
```
The optional `css` property on the buttons will be set as css class on the button, while the `value` (also optional) will be used when resolving the promise (i.e. this is the value that will end up in the `then` when clicking the button).

### confirm and alert
`confirm` and `alert` are shorthand methods that internally call `notify` with some predefined data to cover most usecases. These two methods to show either a notification with Ok/Cancel buttons or just a single Ok-button. Both accept roughly the same parameters object:

```javascript
confirm({
  title: 'Warning!', // default is either 'Confirm' or 'Alert'
  message: 'Please confirm that you have read this.',
  confirm: 'Sure man', // default is 'Ok'
  cancel: 'No way',  // default is 'Cancel', not used for $alert
}).then(result => {
  // result is true/false when using $confirm, and not set for $alert
});
```

Both methods can also be called with a string as argument, which is the same as using an object with only the `message` property set. So these two are equal:
```javascript
confirm('Are you sure?');
confirm({message: 'Are you sure?'});
```

When using `confirm` or `alert`, all confirm buttons will have the css-class `confirm` and all cancel buttons `cancel`.

## styling
The default component has some basic styling to overlay the content and show the message.
For your own project you might want to use custom styling for the notification itself.
There are some basic styles and simple classes which you can override easily.
A small example when using CSS Modules (with SCSS) in your Vue project.

```html
<notivuecation :class="$style.notification" />
```

```scss
:local {
  .notification {
    background: rgba(#000, 0.3);

    :global {
      .notivuecation-content {
        background: #000;
        color: #fff;
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Which would make the notification mask lighter, the content background black and the content contrasting white.


## custom component
If you want to use your own component for displaying the notification, just add the `componentMixin` to your component's mixins. It will add the following properties to the component: `title`, `buttons`, `message`, `resolve` and `notification`.

```javascript
import { componentMixin } from 'notivuecation';

Vue.component('custom-component', {
  mixins: [componentMixin],
  template: `<div v-if="notification">
      <h1>{{title}}</h1>
      <p>{{message}}</p>

      <button
        v-for="button in buttons"
        :class="button.css"
        @click="resolve(button.value)"
      >{{button.label}}</button>
    </div>`,
});
```

__Make sure to use `v-if="notification"` (or `v-show`) to show or hide the notification.__


If your component needs to do specific logic (like validation or animations), the only thing you need to eventually do is call `this.resolve(someValue)`.
```javascript
Vue.component('my-custom-component', {
  mixins: [componentMixin],
  methods: {
    onButtonClick(button) {
      doAnimations().then(() => {
        this.resolve(button.value);
      });
    },
  }
}
```
## options
When initializing the plugin, you can supply an optional second argument to set some options. The example below lists every possible property and shows the default value.  
```javascript
Vue.use(notivuecation, {
  addMethodsToVue: true,
});
```

Commit message:

Allow default componentname to be set from options

README.md, after:

# notivuecation

Promise-based alert and confirm modal for Vue.js. See some examples on the [demo page](https://petervdn.github.io/notivuecation/example/).

## install

```sh
npm install notivuecation
```
## basic usage

1 - Activate the plugin.
```javascript
import Vue from 'vue';
import notivuecation from 'notivuecation';

Vue.use(notivuecation);
```

2 - Add the component that renders the notifications. You probably want to put this somewhere in the root component of your site, so it can always be visible. There is a simple component (named `notivuecation`) available, but you can also create and use your own.
```html
<notivuecation />
```

3 - Call `$alert` or `$confirm` from any Vue component:
```javascript
this.$alert('You are the 1 millionth visitor!').then(claimPrize);

this.$confirm('Are you sure?').then(result => {
  // result is true/false
});
```

## overview
The plugin exports three methods:

```javascript
import { confirm, alert, notify } from 'notivuecation';
```
These are also added to the Vue instance under the following names: `$confirm`, `$alert` and `$notify`.

### notify
The `notify` is the base method of the plugin and is internally always used to show a notification. It accepts an object that defines the title, a message and all buttons to show:
```javascript
notify({
  title: 'Claim prize',
  message: 'What color should your car be?',
  buttons: [
    {label: 'red', value: 1, css: 'red'},
    {label: 'green', value: 2, css: 'green'},
    {label: 'blue', value: 3, css: 'blue'},
  ]
});
```
The optional `css` property on the buttons will be set as css class on the button, while the `value` (also optional) will be used when resolving the promise (i.e. this is the value that will end up in the `then` when clicking the button).

### confirm and alert
`confirm` and `alert` are shorthand methods that internally call `notify` with some predefined data to cover most usecases. These two methods to show either a notification with Ok/Cancel buttons or just a single Ok-button. Both accept roughly the same parameters object:

```javascript
confirm({
  title: 'Warning!', // default is either 'Confirm' or 'Alert'
  message: 'Please confirm that you have read this.',
  confirm: 'Sure man', // default is 'Ok'
  cancel: 'No way',  // default is 'Cancel', not used for $alert
}).then(result => {
  // result is true/false when using $confirm, and not set for $alert
});
```

Both methods can also be called with a string as argument, which is the same as using an object with only the `message` property set. So these two are equal:
```javascript
confirm('Are you sure?');
confirm({message: 'Are you sure?'});
```

When using `confirm` or `alert`, all confirm buttons will have the css-class `confirm` and all cancel buttons `cancel`.

## styling
The default component has some basic styling to overlay the content and show the message.
For your own project you might want to use custom styling for the notification itself.
There are some basic styles and simple classes which you can override easily.
A small example when using CSS Modules (with SCSS) in your Vue project.

```html
<notivuecation :class="$style.notification" />
```

```scss
:local {
  .notification {
    background: rgba(#000, 0.3);

    :global {
      .notivuecation-content {
        background: #000;
        color: #fff;
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Which would make the notification mask lighter, the content background black and the content contrasting white.


## custom component
If you want to use your own component for displaying the notification, just add the `componentMixin` to your component's mixins. It will add the following properties to the component: `title`, `buttons`, `message`, `resolve` and `notification`.

```javascript
import { componentMixin } from 'notivuecation';

Vue.component('custom-component', {
  mixins: [componentMixin],
  template: `<div v-if="notification">
      <h1>{{title}}</h1>
      <p>{{message}}</p>

      <button
        v-for="button in buttons"
        :class="button.css"
        @click="resolve(button.value)"
      >{{button.label}}</button>
    </div>`,
});
```

__Make sure to use `v-if="notification"` (or `v-show`) to show or hide the notification.__


If your component needs to do specific logic (like validation or animations), the only thing you need to eventually do is call `this.resolve(someValue)`.
```javascript
Vue.component('my-custom-component', {
  mixins: [componentMixin],
  methods: {
    onButtonClick(button) {
      doAnimations().then(() => {
        this.resolve(button.value);
      });
    },
  }
}
```
## options
When initializing the plugin, you can supply an optional second argument to set some options. The example below lists every possible property and shows the default value.  
```javascript
Vue.use(notivuecation, {
  addMethodsToVue: true, // add methods to the Vue instacne
  componentName: 'notivuecation', // name of default component
});
```
